reports from the US are suggesting the
Biden Administration paused a shipment
of bombs to Israel last week now
according to a quoted Us official this
was over concerns that Israel would move
ahead with its planned ground assault on
Rafa in southern Gaza the details of the
decision are emerging after Israeli
tanks moved in to take control of the
gazen side of the Rua border crossing
with Egypt the incursion has left the
prospect of a new ceasefire deal between
Israel and mass hanging in the
balance makeshift
shelters in a sea of rubble and debris
KH yunas is a
ruin yet thousands of Palestinians have
begun to return after Israel ordered
them to evacuate parts of the
Southernmost city of
Rafa Israeli forces have seized control
of the Rafa Crossing on the border with
Egypt the attack came just hours after
Hamas says it accepted a ceasefire
proposal one that Israel says was
unacceptable I thought the Hamas
proposal was intended to prevent the
entry of our forces into Rafa it did not
happen as the war cabinet unanimously
determined the Hamas proposal is very
far from Israel's necessary
requirements the attack was not the
full-scale ground offensive that many
have feared but in seizing the
checkpoint Israeli forces have altered
all humanitarian Aid passing through the
crossing the two main arteries
forgetting Aid into Gaza is currently
choked
off indeed this morning is one of the
darkest in this s month long
nightmare with famine already spreading
across Gaza the loss of Aid is
devastating for its civilians ceasefire
negotiations are ongoing but they stand
on a knife's
edge we are at a decisive moment for the
Palestinian and Israeli people and for
the fate of the entire
region an agreement between the
government of Israel and the leadership
of Hamas is essential to stop the
unbearable suffering of Palestinians in
Gaza and of the hostages and their
families almost half of gaza's
population fled their homes to shelter
in
Rafa now they must flee
again but with so much of the territory
in Ruins many are losing
hope I'm tired of life because there is
no life in Gaza Gaza has no future when
are our children going to learn if the
schools are closed Gaza has no health
facilities and no hospitals what kind of
life is this all eyes are now on the
negotiation in Cairo as mediators
attempt to salvage whatever remains of a
possible
ceasefire okay let's cross straight to
our correspondent in Jerusalem Tanya kma
Tanya um so Israel is saying that it's
conducting a limited scope operation in
Rafa what more do we know at this
point well there have been reports
reports uh um that you know there have
been air bombardments across the Gaza
Strip in different location but of
course very much is centered on the
eastern part of rafar in the Jan
neighborhood or neighborhood the uh
Village of huzar their bombardments and
uh what we hearing a heavy fighting
going on there uh while people were told
of course to evacuate from that area uh
since Monday and to move to what the
Israeli Army uh described as the
expanded milit uh expanded humanitarian
Zone I talked to some people here in the
past days some have left immediately
they said you know we don't want to uh
uh stay here this is risky but some have
also said you know they don't really
know where to go they have a large
family they don't see themselves sitting
or being uh in a tent again and they
simply don't also feel safe uh to move
so some have also not left to this
protected area uh but to kanun or
further uh to uh the middle area and
another concern of course especially for
the eight agencies are the crossings we
heard it in the report um Israel has
said they are controlling now the
Palestinian side of the uh rafar
Crossing that was the only Gateway of
course for many Palestinians to leave in
a limited number but also the major hub
for a to come in as well as the Kum
Shalom Crossing there was a mortar
attack on Sunday which killed four
Israeli soldiers since then both
Crossings are close so it's very hard to
get any humanitarian Aid in in the South
okay and Meanwhile we're hearing reports
that the US paused a shipment of bombs
to Israel because of its concerns over
uh an Israeli offensive in Rafa what
what more can you tell us about those
reports yeah there were reports in the
American Media and that is based on an
American unnamed American official who
has confirmed that the United States has
indeed opposed a shipment of bombs and
that shipment would have included about
uh 3,500 bombs some of them the
2,000 uh bombs which are as uh you know
analysts say very um problematic when it
comes to uh uh bombs in a densely uh
populated area as we've seen across the
Gaza Strip but also if they would be
used in a full incursion uh on rafar so
you can see here the pressure is piling
up on Israel as the US United States and
other countries have said they don't
want to see a full incursion uh in rafar
but there's also of course domestically
some pressure on the United States
because this week it's actually uh the
US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin he
has to submit a report to Congress and
that report has to deal whether Israel
has violated humanitarian international
law while using Us weapons in Gaza and
also whether um Israel has impeded on us
humanitarian efforts in Gaza okay and
just brief briefly Tanya if you could
ceasefire talks are continuing in Cairo
do we know where the negotiations
stand well we understand that Israel has
sent a delegation but it's described
here as a lowlevel delegation of Israeli
officials with a very limited mandate
Now talks will continue as you said but
it's unclear how both sides will
actually Bridge the gaps and we heard
from Hamas you know they had agreed to
an agreement Israel had said this is rul
and Hamas had said you know they want to
see the full withdrawal from Gaza they
want to see a return of residents to to
the north they want to see a permanent
end to the uh to the war and this is
something Israel has always rejected so
we understand that today uh the CIA
director uh Bill Burns will also come to
Israel to talk to his counterpart to
talk uh to um the uh um Israeli Prime
Minister but there's a lot of pressure
here domestically uh from uh people they
want to see a deal they want to see the
hostages being brought home but also for
prime minister Benyamin Netanyahu who
has a lot of pressure within his own
cabinet to continue the war all right DW
correspondent in Jerusalem Tanya kma
Tanya thank
you now K mohari is a journalist joining
us now from the Egyptian Capital Cairo
where those ceasefire negotiations are
taking place welcome kareim how high are
the hopes of achieving a deal this
time well uh that they're still speaking
we don't hear much about it is maybe a
good sign there is only really one
official statement from one of the
negotiators a spokesperson of the C
foreign Ministry who says there are
positive there's progress but there are
still gaps to be filled now the rest
what we hear is from media reports that
are somehow leaked from both sides for
example Hamas is saying that they got
you because because they agreed to this
uh exchange of hostages and Palestinian
prisoners because they got some kind of
us guarantees that this will be with
accompanied with uh the withdrawal of
the Israeli troops from the Gaza Strip
and a longer term ceasefire on the other
side the Israelis are saying that some
of the sticking points are for example
that Hamas is demanding that they have
the full say in who is going to be
released from the Palestinians from the
Israeli prisons Israel has no say in
this matter the Israelis want to have a
veto power here and there's also talk
about the the first phase how many
hostages are released now we have first
it was 33 now the word is 18 it seems to
be like for Hamas this first phase is
not the important phase it's come out
kind
of a confident building measure and the
most important phase for them is then
the second phase and then in the second
phase they really want to have
guarantees that there will be some kind
of permanent ceasefire or as the
Americans are saying sustained calm okay
and while these talks uh are ongoing
what are you hearing from people who are
inside Gaza in
Rafa despair I would say I mean lots of
people you know people were displaced
multiple times some of them there's a
family that was displaced nine times um
people run out of money people don't
know where to go when when they arrive
at the new places they see that they're
absolutely not fit to receive so many
people and a lot of talk already was
before here about the humanitarian
situation because the crossings are
closed it's also the other way around
not only that there's no Eight coming in
for example there can be no injured
right now coming out which happened
before with any seriously injured went
out to Egypt to be uh um um treated
there and that's especially difficult
because uh um there's only one remaining
Hospital in Rafa which is the Kuwait
hospital and other medical facilities
were ordered to um evacuate by the
Israeli Army so also the situation of
the Health Care system in Rafa is pretty
Dire kareim El goari in Cairo thank you
so much kareim for your analysis
there you're welcome